



Domain Name System Operations                                B. Woodcock
Internet-Draft                                     Packet Clearing House
Updates: 5855 (if approved)                                   M. Kosters
Intended status: Standards Track                                    ARIN
Expires: 8 March 2027                               C. Martinez-Cagnazzo
                                                                  LACNIC
                                                             M. A. Tamon
                                                                 AFRINIC
                                                               G. Huston
                                                                   APNIC
                                                        4 September 2026


                  Delegation of the 'asn.arpa' Domain
                       draft-woodcock-asn-arpa-00

Abstract

   This document requests the delegation of the "asn.arpa" domain and
   describes the naming structure and administrative arrangements that
   apply to it.  The domain provides a stable, globally unique domain
   name associated with each Autonomous System Number (ASN), so that
   peering policies, digital emblems and other authenticated statements
   can be attached to autonomous systems.  The zone is administered by
   IANA, which delegates a subdomain to each Regional Internet Registry
   and publishes a CNAME record for each allocated Autonomous System
   Number pointing into the subdomain of the RIR that administers it.
   Delegation of the corresponding nameserver domain 'asn-servers.arpa'
   is also requested.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-woodcock-asn-arpa/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Domain Name System
   Operations Working Group mailing list (mailto:dnsop@ietf.org), which
   is archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/dnsop/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/dnsop/.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.





Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 8 March 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   2.  Conventions and Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   3.  Rationale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
     3.1.  Digital Emblems for Autonomous Systems  . . . . . . . . .   5
     3.2.  Peering Policy and Other Uses . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.3.  Relationship to RPKI  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.4.  Relationship to RDAP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.5.  Why Under "arpa"  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
   4.  Structure of the asn.arpa Zone  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     4.1.  Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     4.2.  Delegations to the Regional Internet Registries . . . . .   7
     4.3.  The Per-ASN CNAME Set . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
     4.4.  The Stable Identifier of an Autonomous System . . . . . .   9
     4.5.  Portability Between RIRs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
     4.6.  Deferred Repointing and Chain Depth . . . . . . . . . . .  10
     4.7.  Special-Purpose and Unallocated Autonomous System
           Numbers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
     4.8.  New, Divided, and Derecognized RIRs . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   5.  Nameservers for the Number Resource Zones . . . . . . . . . .  12
     5.1.  Nameservers for "asn.arpa"  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


     5.2.  Nameservers for "in-addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa" . . . . . .  13
   6.  DNSSEC Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   7.  Applications of the Namespace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
   8.  Operational Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
     8.1.  Zone Contents and Provisioning  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
     8.2.  Reconciliation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
       8.2.1.  Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
       8.2.2.  Order of Application  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
       8.2.3.  Use of the Transfer Logs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
       8.2.4.  Cross-Check Against the DNS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
     8.3.  Denial of Existence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
     8.4.  Regional Internet Registry Considerations . . . . . . . .  20
     8.5.  Publication Models Available to an RIR  . . . . . . . . .  21
     8.6.  Registrant Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
     8.7.  What the Zone Does and Does Not Say . . . . . . . . . . .  22
     8.8.  Availability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
   9.  Privacy Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
   10. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
   11. IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
   12. References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
     12.1.  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
     12.2.  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
   Appendix A.  Design Alternatives Considered . . . . . . . . . . .  32
     A.1.  Delegation of Numeric Ranges to RIRs  . . . . . . . . . .  33
       A.1.1.  The Name is No Longer Human-Readable  . . . . . . . .  33
       A.1.2.  The Present Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       A.1.3.  Each Transfer Has a Disproportionate Effect . . . . .  34
       A.1.4.  The Cost Increases Over Time  . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       A.1.5.  Projection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36

1.  Introduction

   The Internet's globally unique number resources fall into three
   families: IPv4 addresses, IPv6 addresses, and Autonomous System
   Numbers (ASNs) [RFC1930].  All three are distributed through the same
   hierarchy, the Internet Numbers Registry System [RFC7020], whose
   constituent IANA registries are identified by [RFC7249] (updated by
   [RFC9812]): IANA allocates aggregate blocks to the Regional Internet
   Registries (RIRs), and each RIR assigns individual resources to
   registrants in their region under community-developed policy.

   Two of the three families already have corresponding namespaces in
   the DNS: "in-addr.arpa" [RFC1035] for IPv4 and "ip6.arpa" [RFC3152]
   for IPv6.  To date, Autonomous System Numbers have none, and
   therefore lack a canonical place for the publication of authenticated
   policies or a name by which Uniform Resource Identifiers can
   reference them.



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   That absence blocks work elsewhere in the IETF.  The Digital Emblems
   (DIEM) working group requires that a digital emblem identify assets
   by fully qualified domain name [I-D.ietf-diem-requirements].
   Autonomous systems are among the assets that need to be marked, and
   at present they cannot be because, unlike IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, no
   domain identifies them.  Section 3 develops this.

   This document requests the delegation of "asn.arpa", specifies the
   structure of the zone, and specifies the DNSSEC requirements that
   apply to it and to delegations made from it.  It does not define any
   resource record content; applications of the namespace are expected
   to be specified separately, as described in Section 7.

   The document makes two further requests, both concerning the naming
   of nameservers.  It requests the delegation of "asn-servers.arpa",
   the zone that names the nameservers of "asn.arpa", on the model
   established for the reverse zones of the other two number resource
   families by [RFC5855].  And, because that model was established in a
   Best Current Practice document rather than in the Standards Track
   document that Section 3 of [RFC3172] contemplates, it restates the
   existing delegations of "in-addr-servers.arpa" and
   "ip6-servers.arpa", unchanged and with no operational effect, so that
   the nameserver zones of all three number resource families are
   defined in a Standards Track document.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   DNS terminology is as defined in [RFC9499].  Autonomous System
   Numbers are 32-bit unsigned integers [RFC6793], written throughout
   this document in the "asplain" notation of [RFC5396].

   "RIR" means an organization recognized as a Regional Internet
   Registry through the process described in [ICP-2]; see Section 4.8.
   "Registrant" means the party to which a Regional Internet Registry
   has assigned an Autonomous System Number, or which has received an
   Autonomous System Number via transfer from another Registrant.  Of
   the two RIRs party to an inter-RIR transfer, the one from which the
   Autonomous System Number moves is the "source RIR" and the one to
   which it moves is the "recipient RIR".






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   This document uses "allocation" and "assignment" in the sense
   established by the Internet Numbers Registry System [RFC7020] and
   does not use them interchangeably.  IANA _allocates_ blocks of
   Autonomous System Numbers to Regional Internet Registries.  A
   Regional Internet Registry _assigns_ an individual Autonomous System
   Number to a registrant.  An ASN that has been allocated to an RIR but
   not yet assigned to a registrant is _unassigned_; an ASN that has not
   been allocated to any RIR remains _unallocated_, in the IANA pool.
   IANA has direct knowledge only of the allocations it performs; it
   learns of both RIR assignments and inter-RIR transfers second-hand.

3.  Rationale

3.1.  Digital Emblems for Autonomous Systems

   The first and most immediate motivation for this document is the need
   to bind digital emblems to autonomous systems.  The Digital Emblems
   (DIEM) working group is chartered to define a means by which such
   emblems can be discovered and validated for network-connected assets
   [DIEM-CHARTER] [I-D.ietf-diem-requirements], with discovery in the
   initial scope performed through the DNS.  The architecture requires
   that an emblem be bound to the asset it marks by a fully qualified
   domain name.

   Some of the assets that most need marking are autonomous systems.
   The network of a hospital, of a civil defense organization, of a
   humanitarian agency, or of a national or intergovernmental body
   enjoying protection under international law is, at the routing layer,
   an autonomous system: a set of prefixes originated under a common
   administration and identified by an Autonomous System Number.

   An emblem cannot be attached to an autonomous system today because an
   autonomous system has no fully qualified domain name to which it
   could be attached, and because there is no authority from whom such a
   name could be obtained that is congruent with the authority that
   assigned the ASN.  This document supplies both.  The name
   "64496.asn.arpa" would exist if AS 64496 were allocated; it would be
   delegated, through the RIR that assigned AS 64496, to the registrant
   of AS 64496; and the whole path is DNSSEC-signed, so a validator can
   establish that what it retrieved was published by that registrant.

   The DIEM architecture cannot mark autonomous systems, as it was
   chartered to do, until autonomous systems can be named.








Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 5]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


3.2.  Peering Policy and Other Uses

   Once autonomous systems have names, other classes of authenticated
   statement become possible.  The most pressing of those is peering
   policy.

   An operator's peering policy: whether open, selective, or
   restrictive; where the operator is present; what it asks of a
   prospective peer; whom to approach -- all of this is information
   about an autonomous system that other operators consult routinely and
   act upon.  It is published today in third-party databases and in
   Internet Routing Registry (IRR) objects expressed in the Routing
   Policy Specification Language [RFC2622], extended for IPv6 and
   multicast address families by RPSLng [RFC4012], in forms that are not
   cryptographically bound to the registrant of the autonomous system.
   No object exists in RPKI for this purpose and none is contemplated,
   so nothing here overlaps or competes with [RFC6480].

   Beyond peering policy there are operational and security contacts,
   references to IRR objects, statements of BGP operations and security
   practices [RFC7454].  [I-D.ietf-dnssec-as-map] proposed in 1997 that
   every Autonomous System Number be given a name in the DNS so that a
   KEY [RFC2535] record could be used to authenticate messages between
   autonomous systems without pairwise pre-shared keys.  In 2001 INOC-
   DBA [INOC-DBA] connected the responsible parties of some 3,800 ASNs
   using the SIP protocol, but required a central authority to guarantee
   identities, since no such name-and-key binding existed.  The
   subsequent IANA registry of IP Telephony Administrative Domain
   numbers [RFC3219] [IANA-ITAD] has served the same function with the
   same limitation.  These and other uses are expected to be developed
   separately and on their own merits, subject to Section 7.

3.3.  Relationship to RPKI

   This namespace is not an authorization mechanism and is not a
   substitute for RPKI [RFC6480].  The two structures have different
   trust properties.

3.4.  Relationship to RDAP

   The service discovery mechanism of the Registration Data Access
   Protocol (RDAP) uses a bootstrap file that IANA publishes under
   [RFC9224], which maps ranges of Autonomous System Numbers to the base
   URLs of the RIRs' RDAP services.  The bootstrap file is generated
   from IANA's allocation registry ([RFC9224], Section 12), so it
   records the ranges as they were allocated to the RIRs and it does not
   reflect subsequent inter-RIR transfers.  RDAP queries for transferred
   ASNs received by the source RIR are answered with an HTTP 303



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 6]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   redirect to the recipient RIR.  That is the same device as the
   intermediate CNAME of Section 4.6.  The RDAP redirections are
   permanent, growing in number and length over time, whereas the CNAME
   delegation chains are periodically flattened.

   The two mechanisms answer different questions for different consumers
   and do not compete.  RDAP has no means of carrying a Digital Emblem,
   and RDAP has no equivalent of authenticated denial of existence.
   RDAP describes the registration while "asn.arpa" names the thing
   registered.

3.5.  Why Under "arpa"

   The "arpa" domain is already intended for this class of use: an
   infrastructural identifier space derived from a protocol family,
   administered by IANA under IAB guidance [RFC3172] and within the
   scope of [RFC2860], and external to the commercial, contractual, and
   jurisdictional considerations that complicate use of other parts of
   the domain name space.  It is also the only choice consistent with
   the treatment of the other two number resource families.  Previous
   delegations made under the same process include "ipv4only.arpa"
   [RFC7050], "empty.as112.arpa" [RFC7535], and "home.arpa" [RFC8375].

4.  Structure of the asn.arpa Zone

4.1.  Overview

   The "asn.arpa" zone contains:

   *  a delegation, with NS and DS RRsets, for each Regional Internet
      Registry (Section 4.2);

   *  a CNAME record for each Autonomous System Number that has been
      allocated to a Regional Internet Registry, pointing into the
      subdomain of the RIR that administers it (Section 4.3); and

   *  the records required to operate, secure, and sign the zone itself.

4.2.  Delegations to the Regional Internet Registries

   IANA delegates one subdomain of "asn.arpa" to each Regional Internet
   Registry.  The initial set is:

   afrinic.asn.arpa.       AFRINIC
   apnic.asn.arpa.         APNIC
   arin.asn.arpa.          ARIN
   lacnic.asn.arpa.        LACNIC
   ripe.asn.arpa.          RIPE NCC



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 7]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Each is delegated to nameservers designated by the RIR concerned, and
   each delegation is accompanied by a DS RRset as required by
   Section 6.  The labels are short forms of the RIRs' own names; an RIR
   that prefers a different label for its subdomain may inform IANA;
   changing the RIR label is transparent to consumers.  An RIR MUST NOT
   designate, for the zone delegated to it, a nameserver whose name is
   subordinate to "asn.arpa", so that zone requires no glue records and
   IANA holds no address records for infrastructure it does not operate.

   These delegations are not associated with ranges of Autonomous System
   Numbers.  The association between an ASN and an RIR is expressed by
   the CNAME set of Section 4.3, and nothing in the delegation structure
   changes when ASNs are transferred between RIRs.

   Each RIR administers the zone delegated to it in accordance with the
   policies developed by its own community.  Within that zone, the name
   corresponding to an Autonomous System Number is the asplain decimal
   representation of that ASN as a single label, "64496.arin.asn.arpa",
   which the RIR delegates to the registrant of the ASN or serves
   directly.

4.3.  The Per-ASN CNAME Set

   For each Autonomous System Number that has been allocated to a
   Regional Internet Registry, IANA publishes a CNAME record in the
   "asn.arpa" zone.  The owner name of that record is the asplain
   decimal representation of that ASN, as a single label; its target is
   the identically labeled name in the subdomain of the administering
   RIR:

   64496.asn.arpa.     CNAME   64496.arin.asn.arpa.
   64497.asn.arpa.     CNAME   64497.ripe.asn.arpa.
   65536.asn.arpa.     CNAME   65536.apnic.asn.arpa.

   In all cases, asplain notation [RFC5396] MUST be used.  The "asdot"
   and "asdot+" notations MUST NOT be used, and no prefix such as "AS"
   is used.  There is only one label in "asn.arpa" for each allocated
   Autonomous System Number.

   Because a CNAME record cannot coexist with other non-DNSSEC RRTYPEs
   at the same label [RFC1034][RFC2181], no other data appear at these
   labels, and all data concerning an Autonomous System Number is served
   from the RIR side of the redirection.

   Redirection of individual numerical identifiers by CNAME is long-
   established practice in the reverse namespace.  [RFC2317], Best
   Current Practice since 1998, delegates "in-addr.arpa" space on other
   than an octet boundary by publishing, in the enclosing zone, one



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 8]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   CNAME per address of the delegated block, each pointing at the
   corresponding name in a zone operated by another party.  What is
   described here differs only in that the redirection is per Autonomous
   System Number rather than per IP address, and that the subordinate
   zones are operated by the Regional Internet Registries; the
   mechanism, and the resolver behavior it depends upon, are the same.

   The CNAME describes allocation and not assignment.  IANA knows which
   RIR it allocated an ASN to; it has no knowledge of whether, or to
   whom, that RIR has assigned it.  The CNAME is therefore published
   when the ASN is allocated to an RIR, and the corresponding name in
   the RIR's subdomain does not come into existence until the ASN has
   been assigned to a registrant.  In the interval between allocation
   and assignment, and for as long after assignment as a registrant
   publishes nothing, the CNAME points at a name that does not exist.
   What can and cannot be inferred from that absence is set out in
   Section 8.7.

   No CNAME is published for an ASN that has not been allocated to an
   RIR, nor for one whose allocation has been returned to the IANA pool.

   IANA MUST NOT publish any wildcard records [RFC4592] in "asn.arpa",
   and Regional Internet Registries MUST NOT publish any in the zones
   delegated to them.  A wildcard in either zone would synthesize an
   answer at every name within its scope for which nothing has been
   published, and would do so under the signature of an operator that
   does not hold the numbers concerned.

   The asplain representation is concise and can be read and written by
   humans without additional tooling.  Because it does not require
   transformation and errors are recognizable on sight, transcription
   errors are less likely to occur than if other encodings are used.
   These names are expected to appear in digital emblems and in the
   tools that validate them, in peering documents, and in
   correspondence, where these properties are inherently advantageous.

4.4.  The Stable Identifier of an Autonomous System

   The name "<asn>.asn.arpa" is a stable reference to an Autonomous
   System Number.  The target of the CNAME is an artifact of which RIR
   currently administers the ASN, and is subject to change.

   Specifications and applications that need to refer to an autonomous
   system by name SHOULD use the "<asn>.asn.arpa" form.  The RIR-
   qualified form is not a stable identifier: it changes whenever the
   Autonomous System Number is transferred.  The RIR-qualified form
   SHOULD NOT be recorded or embedded in a reference.




Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                  [Page 9]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


4.5.  Portability Between RIRs

   Autonomous System Numbers move between RIRs, both individually by
   transfer and in aggregate when the RIR responsible for a region
   changes.  Under this system, these moves are reflected by a
   repointing of the "asn.arpa" CNAME by IANA.

   The name of the autonomous system does not change, no delegation is
   restructured, nothing that referred to the autonomous system by its
   stable identifier is invalidated, and any emblem or other statement
   attached to it survives the transfer.  The recipient RIR publishes
   the data at the new target and the source RIR eventually withdraws
   it; see Section 4.6.

   The alternative would be to delegate ASN ranges to the RIRs, as "in-
   addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa" do for IP addresses.  Unlike address
   ranges, an ASN is assigned individually, and a transfer removes a
   single ASN from the interior of its enclosing range.  Under any
   encoding that permits aggregation, that ASN cannot simply be moved:
   the range containing it must be broken into the aligned fragments
   remaining on either side, and a new delegation created for the ASN
   itself.  Each transfer thus replaces a single delegation with
   approximately twenty-five, each carrying its own nameserver records,
   its own DS RRset, and its own key-rollover coordination between IANA
   and an RIR.  There is no mechanism by which those fragments can be
   reassembled.  Movement that has already occurred raises the count of
   delegations needed to cover the present distribution of Autonomous
   System Numbers among the RIRs from 891, the cover of IANA's own
   allocation blocks, to 16,670.

4.6.  Deferred Repointing and Chain Depth

   A transfer still takes effect the moment the two involved RIRs act;
   it does not immediately involve IANA.  The source RIR publishes,
   within its own subdomain of "asn.arpa", a CNAME pointing to the
   corresponding name in the recipient RIR's subdomain of "asn.arpa":

   64496.arin.asn.arpa.    CNAME   64496.ripe.asn.arpa.













Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 10]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Resolution then follows a chain of two CNAMEs, from "64496.asn.arpa"
   to "64496.arin.asn.arpa" and from there to "64496.ripe.asn.arpa".
   IANA repoints the parent CNAME at its own convenience, presumably in
   the same zone edit as its next block allocation, after which the
   source RIR waits at least the TTL period (but within the same
   flattening cycle) and then withdraws the intermediate CNAME.  No
   additional IANA-to-RIR notification mechanism is needed to effect the
   source-RIR withdrawal, since IANA already announces each allocation
   event to the RIRs and to the public, RIRs monitor these announcements
   already, and the repointing occurs in the same edit.

   This ensures that IANA's edit rate is decoupled from transfer
   activity.  IANA's operations on "asn.arpa" would presumably consist
   of approximately five editing operations per year, paralleling the
   ASN allocation rate, which has been effectively flat for the past two
   decades [ASN-ALLOC-POLICY] [IANA-ASN] and which does not change under
   this system.

   The flattening operation is invisible to resolvers: a cache still
   holding the parent CNAME reaches the intermediate one and resolves
   correctly, so IANA may batch flattening on its own schedule with no
   coordination window and no risk of a stale answer being wrong.

   The DNS sets no limit on the length of a CNAME chain, and
   implementations therefore impose their own, most choosing limits
   between ten and sixteen hops, counted across the whole of a
   resolution and shared with DNAME.

   This system uses either a single CNAME or a CNAME chain of two hops.
   A third would require the same Autonomous System Number to be
   transferred between RIRs twice within a single flattening interval:
   approximately ten weeks.  Although 1,909 ASNs have been transferred
   once (1,722 pre-2018 ERX, and 187 post-2018 transfers), no ASN has
   yet been transferred more than once.  Thus a second transfer (and
   third CNAME hop) of the same ASN within ten weeks is very unlikely,
   and a third transfer within ten weeks is not plausible.  Nonetheless,
   up to nine transfers of the same ASN could be effected within a
   single flattening window without ill effect.

   An RIR that receives an inbound transfer of an Autonomous System
   Number that it had previously transferred away MUST withdraw its own
   outbound CNAME for that ASN, rather than leaving it in place.  Where
   the RIR has records to publish at that label, the exclusivity rule of
   [RFC1034] compels this in any case, since a CNAME cannot coexist with
   other non-DNSSEC resource records at the same label; but an RIR with
   nothing to publish is not so compelled, and so without this
   restriction, two RIRs each retaining an outbound CNAME for the same
   ASN could form a loop that no resolver could resolve.



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 11]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   An intermediate CNAME MUST NOT be published for any purpose other
   than a completed transfer awaiting flattening, and MUST NOT point to
   a name outside "asn.arpa".  It is the only CNAME an RIR may publish
   at an Autonomous System Number name; see Section 8.5.

4.7.  Special-Purpose and Unallocated Autonomous System Numbers

   No CNAME is published, and the zone returns authenticated denial of
   existence, for Autonomous System Numbers reserved for special
   purposes.  At the time of writing these are:

   *  AS 0 [RFC7607];

   *  AS 23456, reserved for representation of 4-octet ASNs to legacy
      speakers [RFC6793];

   *  AS 64496 through AS 64511 and AS 65536 through AS 65551, reserved
      for documentation [RFC5398];

   *  AS 64512 through AS 65534 and AS 4200000000 through AS 4294967294,
      reserved for private use [RFC6996];

   *  AS 65535 and AS 4294967295 [RFC7300].

   The "Special-Purpose Autonomous System (AS) Numbers" registry
   [IANA-ASN-SPECIAL], established by Section 3 of [RFC7249], is
   authoritative for which ASNs those are, and IANA reflects changes to
   it in the zone.

4.8.  New, Divided, and Derecognized RIRs

   Although change is infrequent, the set of delegations in Section 4.2
   is not fixed.  If a new Regional Internet Registry is recognized,
   IANA adds a delegation for it, using a label derived from the RIR's
   name, and repoints the CNAMEs of the Autonomous System Numbers it
   administers.  If an existing RIR is divided or derecognized, the same
   operations apply.  Recognition and derecognition of Regional Internet
   Registries is a matter for the ICANN Address Supporting Organization
   process, not for this document or for the IETF; see [ICP-2] and the
   revision under way at the time of writing [ICP-2-REVIEW].

   No Autonomous System Number's stable identifier is affected by any of
   these events, as a direct consequence of Section 4.5.

5.  Nameservers for the Number Resource Zones






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 12]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


5.1.  Nameservers for "asn.arpa"

   The nameservers that serve the "asn.arpa" zone are named within a
   dedicated subdomain of "arpa", following the arrangement made for
   "in-addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa" by [RFC5855].  The initial set is
   "a.asn-servers.arpa" through "e.asn-servers.arpa", extended
   alphabetically if further servers are added.  This allows the NS
   RRset of 'asn.arpa' to be expressed entirely in names that IANA
   administers for the purpose, so that the servers behind those names
   can be changed without a change to the 'arpa' zone.  This is a naming
   scheme, not a requirement to operate distinct infrastructure.

5.2.  Nameservers for "in-addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa"

   "in-addr-servers.arpa" and "ip6-servers.arpa" name the nameservers of
   "in-addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa" respectively.  IANA delegated both in
   2010, with the approval of the IAB, as specified in Sections 2, 3,
   and 5 of [RFC5855], and both have been in continuous operation since;
   each is signed, with a DS RRset in the "arpa" zone.  The naming
   schemes are "a.in-addr-servers.arpa" through "f.in-addr-servers.arpa"
   and "a.ip6-servers.arpa" through "f.ip6-servers.arpa", extended
   alphabetically if further servers are added.

   [RFC5855] is a Best Current Practice document.  Section 3 of
   [RFC3172] specifies that the IAB shall recommend creation of a
   subdomain of "arpa" where the delegation and the hierarchical name
   structure are described by an IETF Standards Track document whose
   IANA Considerations section explicitly recommends the use of "arpa".
   The IAB treated the two delegations as an operational change rather
   than as the creation of a namespace for protocol objects, and
   approved them on that basis (Section 4 of [RFC5855]).

   This document restates those two delegations so that the nameserver
   zones of all three number resource families are described by a
   Standards Track document, as this document does for "asn-
   servers.arpa".  Nothing is altered by the restatement: the
   delegations, their nameserver sets, the naming schemes of Sections 2
   and 3 of [RFC5855], and the operation of the two zones remain exactly
   as they are today.  No new action is required of IANA with respect to
   them.

6.  DNSSEC Requirements

   The utility of this namespace depends upon the integrity of the data
   published within it, and therefore upon DNSSEC [RFC9364].
   Accordingly:





Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 13]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   *  The "asn.arpa" and "asn-servers.arpa" zones MUST be signed by
      IANA, and DS RRsets for them MUST be present in the "arpa" zone.
      There MUST NOT be any interval during which "asn.arpa" or "asn-
      servers.arpa" exist as insecure delegations.

   *  Every delegation published in the "asn.arpa" zone MUST be
      accompanied by a DS RRset.  Insecure delegations MUST NOT be
      created in "asn.arpa", and a delegation whose DS RRset is
      withdrawn MUST be removed rather than left insecure.

   *  Each Regional Internet Registry MUST sign the zone delegated to
      it, and MUST maintain a current DS relationship with IANA across
      key rollovers.  IANA SHOULD support maintenance of these DS RRsets
      by means of CDS and CDNSKEY records [RFC7344] [RFC8078], and MUST
      operate a documented process by which an RIR can effect a DS
      change without an insecure interval.

   *  Each Regional Internet Registry MUST publish valid DS RRsets
      supplied to it by registrants, and SHOULD support maintenance of
      that DS RRset by means of CDS and CDNSKEY records [RFC7344]
      [RFC8078].

   *  The registrant of an Autonomous System Number SHOULD sign the zone
      delegated to it and supply the DS RRset for it to the RIR.

   *  Signing MUST use algorithms consistent with current DNSSEC
      algorithm guidance [RFC9904].

   No separate trust anchor is created by this document.  Validation
   proceeds from the root zone trust anchor through "arpa" in the
   ordinary way, and implementations MUST NOT be configured with
   "asn.arpa" or any zone beneath it as an independent trust anchor.

7.  Applications of the Namespace

   This document creates the namespace and the structure.  It defines no
   resource record types and no record content, and publication of
   anything under a delegated name is outside its scope.

   Documents specifying content to be published under "asn.arpa" are
   subject to the normal IETF process, and are expected to address at
   minimum: the record types used, their placement, and the behavior of
   a consumer on encountering unexpected data.

8.  Operational Considerations






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 14]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


8.1.  Zone Contents and Provisioning

   The "asn.arpa" zone holds one delegation per Regional Internet
   Registry (five at the time of writing), each comprising an NS RRset
   and a DS RRset; and one CNAME per allocated Autonomous System Number
   (approximately 140,000 at time of writing) [IANA-ASN].  No glue
   records are required, because the nameservers of the RIR subdomains
   are named outside "asn.arpa" (Section 4.2).  The zone is mechanically
   generated, and of modest size by the standards of the DNS.  As a
   point of comparison, the ".com" zone currently holds more than 400
   million resource records [COM-ZONE] [STATDNS], and reverse-mapping
   zones and those operated by hosting and content-delivery providers
   are also often in the hundreds of millions of resource records.

   Which names exist in the zone is determined by the IANA "Autonomous
   System (AS) Numbers" registry [IANA-ASN], which records every
   allocation of a block of ASNs to an RIR, together with the "Special-
   Purpose Autonomous System (AS) Numbers" registry [IANA-ASN-SPECIAL].
   Where each name points is determined by the RIRs' published extended
   allocation and assignment reports [RIR-STATS].  The procedure is
   specified in Section 8.2.

8.2.  Reconciliation

   IANA regenerates the CNAME set before each scheduled edit of the
   zone.  Because this is a recurring IANA work item rather than a one-
   time provisioning step, this section specifies its inputs, the order
   in which they are applied, and the cross-check IANA makes against the
   DNS.

   Because deferred repointing (Section 4.6) keeps every transferred
   name resolving correctly in the interim, IANA needs only the
   aggregate state at reconciliation time.  No new notification path
   from the RIRs to IANA is required beyond that which already exists,
   and none is created by this document.

   In-band signaling from the RIRs to IANA is not used.  Deriving the
   zone from the DNS data served by an RIR would make the DNS self-
   referentially authoritative for the Internet Numbers Registry
   System's own state.

8.2.1.  Inputs

   Three inputs are used:

   Which names exist:  The IANA "Autonomous System (AS) Numbers"





Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 15]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


      registry [IANA-ASN] specifies which Autonomous System Numbers are
      allocated to a Regional Internet Registry, and the "Special-
      Purpose Autonomous System (AS) Numbers" registry
      [IANA-ASN-SPECIAL] specifies which are reserved.  A CNAME exists
      for each ASN which is in the first set and not in the second, and
      for no other ASN.

   Which RIR administers each:  The RIRs' extended allocation and
      assignment files state, for each ASN, which
      RIR administers it at the time of the edit.  Each RIR publishes a
      file in the NRO extended statistics exchange format
      [NRO-STATS-FORMAT], and the NRO publishes the concatenation of the
      five [RIR-STATS].

   Why, and since when:  The RIRs' transfer logs [RIR-TRANSFERS] record
      inter-RIR ASN transfers.  Each RIR publishes a JSON file in the
      NRO transfer log format, whose "transfers" array carries, for each
      event, a "transfer_date", a "source_rir", a "recipient_rir", and,
      where Autonomous System Numbers are involved, an "asns" object
      whose "transfer_set" gives them as "start" and "end" pairs.  These
      logs date and explain changes and reveal skew, but they are not
      individually sufficient to determine the administering RIR.

8.2.2.  Order of Application

   IANA therefore proceeds as follows:

   1.  Form the set of Autonomous System Numbers allocated to a Regional
       Internet Registry from [IANA-ASN], and remove from it those
       recorded in [IANA-ASN-SPECIAL].

   2.  For each ASN remaining, find the record covering it in the
       extended reports and take the administering RIR from that
       record's first field.

   3.  Emit one CNAME pointing to the ASN's label within the subdomain
       of that RIR.

   In the event that IANA discovers a discrepancy in the course of
   executing this process, it leaves any existing CNAME in place and
   refers the discrepancy to the RIRs concerned.










Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 16]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


8.2.3.  Use of the Transfer Logs

   The transfer logs are examined after the CNAME set has been
   generated, as a check upon it rather than as an input to it.  For
   each inter-RIR transfer recorded since the previous edit, IANA
   confirms that the extended reports now place the ASN with the
   recipient RIR.  Three cases arise.

   *  A transfer recorded in a log which the recipient's extended report
      does not yet reflect is normal and requires no action.  The
      reports are produced daily, and a transfer completed since the
      last production run will not appear in them.  IANA repoints the
      parent CNAME at the following edit, and the intermediate CNAME of
      Section 4.6 keeps the name resolving correctly meanwhile.  IANA
      MUST NOT repoint on the strength of a transfer log alone.

   *  A change of administering RIR appearing in the extended reports
      with no corresponding transfer record is a gap in the logs, and
      IANA SHOULD raise it with the RIRs concerned.  The CNAME is
      repointed regardless, since the reports govern.

   *  A transfer is normally recorded by both the source and the
      recipient RIR, and the two records may differ in date by up to a
      day where the RIRs' local time zones differ.  IANA deduplicates on
      the ASN and the pair of RIRs, not on the date.

   The logs vary within the format.  Not every RIR has Autonomous System
   Number transfers to report, and at the time of writing one RIR
   encodes the "start" and "end" members of a "transfer_set" as JSON
   strings where the others encode them as numbers.  A consumer of these
   files accommodates both.

8.2.4.  Cross-Check Against the DNS

   IANA SHOULD cross-check the regenerated zone against what the RIRs
   are actually serving, as a check on both its own reconciliation and
   the RIRs' publication.  This is a read-only operation requiring no
   privileged access, and it may be performed more frequently than the
   zone is edited.

   Because an RIR zone is signed with NSEC, as required by Section 8.3,
   the whole of it can be enumerated by walking the NSEC chain.  Each
   NSEC record gives the next name in canonical order together with the
   type bitmap of its own owner, so a single pass over "arin.asn.arpa"
   yields every Autonomous System Number name that RIR publishes and
   what it publishes there.  Where an RIR offers IANA a zone transfer, a
   single AXFR [RFC5936] replaces the walk; such a transfer SHOULD be
   authenticated with TSIG [RFC8945] or carried over TLS [RFC9103].  The



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 17]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   zone contents are public, so the purpose is not confidentiality but
   assurance that the view IANA cross-checks against is the view the RIR
   published.  Walking all five RIR zones costs on the order of one
   query per published name.

   The type bitmap at each Autonomous System Number name distinguishes
   the cases of Section 8.5 and Section 4.6:

   *  CNAME: the RIR has transferred the ASN away and is serving an
      intermediate CNAME awaiting flattening

   *  NS, DS: the RIR has delegated the name to the registrant

   *  other: the RIR is hosting the registrant's own records

   *  absent: the RIR publishes nothing for that ASN

   IANA compares that enumeration against the zone it has generated and
   against the transfer logs, and SHOULD alert the RIRs upon any of the
   following:

   *  an intermediate CNAME at an ASN for which no completed inter-RIR
      transfer is recorded, or one whose recorded recipient is not the
      RIR the CNAME points into;

   *  an intermediate CNAME whose target label differs from its owner
      label, or whose target lies outside "asn.arpa", contrary to
      Section 4.6 and Section 8.5;

   *  an intermediate CNAME for the same ASN in two RIRs' zones, which
      would form the loop prohibited by Section 4.6;

   *  an intermediate CNAME still present more than flattening cycle
      after IANA repointed the parent CNAME away from that RIR, contrary
      to Section 8.4;

   *  any name for an Autonomous System Number which the extended
      reports do not place with that RIR, or which is not allocated at
      all;

   *  a delegation carrying no DS RRset, where the RIR's own policy
      requires one.

   Where a single ASN is in question, the chain may be checked directly,
   which is the cheaper test:






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 18]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   dig +norecurse +dnssec 64496.asn.arpa.      CNAME @$arpa_server

   dig +norecurse +dnssec 64496.arin.asn.arpa. CNAME @$arin_server

   The first MUST return the CNAME IANA generated.  The second returns
   the intermediate CNAME of Section 4.6 during a transfer awaiting
   flattening, and otherwise either the registrant's data, a delegation,
   or authenticated denial of existence.  Both responses are validated
   in the ordinary way.

8.3.  Denial of Existence

   Because the contents of the zone are public RIR data, and because the
   ability to enumerate allocated Autonomous System Numbers is useful
   rather than harmful, NSEC [RFC4034] MUST be used in preference to
   NSEC3 [RFC5155].  RIRs MUST likewise use NSEC in the zones delegated
   to them, both for the same reason and because it makes the cross-
   check of Section 8.2 possible at the cost of a single zone walk.

   A resolver may make use of NSEC Aggressive Negative Caching [RFC8198]
   to answer queries for ASNs which are not allocated or not assigned.
   Because only the allocated Autonomous System Numbers exist as names,
   within a 32-bit space, cacheable negative gaps are wide, and a modest
   number of cached records suffices to deny most queries for names that
   do not exist without any of them reaching the servers of "asn.arpa"
   or of an RIR.

   Aggressive use has a cost on the other side of a transition.  A
   resolver answering from a cached NSEC record sends no query, so a
   CNAME published by IANA on allocation, or any data an RIR first
   publishes at an Autonomous System Number name, is invisible to that
   resolver until the cached record expires.  Ordinary negative caching
   [RFC2308] imposes that delay on a name which was recently queried
   before it existed; aggressive use imposes it on every Autonomous
   System Number in the gap.  Unlike the stale answers of Section 8.8, a
   synthesized denial is validly signed and a consumer cannot
   distinguish it from one served authoritatively, so the interval is
   governed entirely by the TTL of the NSEC RRset and by the SOA MINIMUM
   field, which [RFC8198] recommends that validating resolvers cap at
   three hours.  IANA and the RIRs should choose those values short
   enough that the delay is tolerable to the applications described in
   Section 7, and not solely to minimize query load.









Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 19]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


8.4.  Regional Internet Registry Considerations

   This system requires active implementation by Regional Internet
   Registries, which assume the majority of the burden described here;
   the system is designed to minimize that burden and follow, as closely
   as possible, the existing RIR systems for in-addr.arpa and ip6.arpa
   management.  An RIR which accepts a delegation under "asn.arpa" takes
   on a continuing but modest set of obligations:

   *  Operate the delegated zone and sign it, and maintain a current DS
      RRset with IANA across key rollovers, as required by Section 6.

   *  Designate for that zone only nameservers named outside "asn.arpa",
      as Section 4.2 requires, so that no glue is needed in the parent
      zone.

   *  For each Autonomous System Number it administers whose registrant
      wishes to participate, publish either the registrant's records or
      a delegation to the registrant, by one of the arrangements in
      Section 8.5.

   *  Publish nothing at an Autonomous System Number name until the ASN
      has been assigned to a registrant and the registrant has furnished
      something to publish there (Section 4.3).

   *  In conjunction with each inter-RIR ASN transfer, withdraw any
      records previously served at that name, publish the intermediate
      CNAME of Section 4.6, and withdraw the CNAME at least one TTL-
      duration after IANA has repointed the parent (but preferably
      within the same flattening cycle).

   *  Continue to publish the extended allocation and assignment report
      [NRO-STATS-FORMAT] and the inter-RIR transfer log [RIR-TRANSFERS],
      at the locations given in Section 8.2.1 and on at least the
      present daily schedule, on which IANA's reconciliation depends
      (Section 8.2).  An RIR that changes either location informs IANA
      in advance.

   *  Serve the delegated zone in a manner that permits the cross-check
      of Section 8.2.4: either by signing with NSEC, as Section 8.3
      requires in any case, or by offering IANA a zone transfer.

   The recurring work scales with the number of participating
   registrants, not with the number of Autonomous System Numbers
   administered, and the provisioning is a natural extension of the
   member-facing systems each RIR already operates for reverse
   delegation under "in-addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa".




Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 20]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


8.5.  Publication Models Available to an RIR

   Two publication models are permitted at "<asn>.<rir>.asn.arpa", and
   an RIR MAY offer either or both, according to its own community's
   policy.  A third is conceivable and is prohibited.

   RIR-hosted records:  The RIR serves the registrant's records from its
      own signed zone, populated through whatever interface it offers
      its members.  This requires no DNS operation on the registrant's
      part and keeps the entire path within a single signed zone.

   Delegation to the registrant:  The RIR publishes NS and DS RRsets and
      the registrant operates the zone.  The zone cut falls within
      "asn.arpa", the chain of authentication remains continuous from
      the root, and the registrant controls publication directly.  This
      suits registrants who already operate DNS infrastructure.

   CNAME to a name in the registrant's own domain:  Prohibited.  An RIR
      MUST NOT publish a CNAME at an Autonomous System Number name
      except the transfer-intermediate CNAME of Section 4.6, and MUST
      NOT point any CNAME at a name outside "asn.arpa".

   The third, prohibited, model would re-root the authority for the data
   in a commercially registered domain name, which opens the door to
   registration lapses and zone hijacking, and this model is also not
   used by RIRs in respect of their "in-addr.arpa" or "ip6.arpa"
   delegations.

   An RIR that wishes to let a registrant publish from infrastructure
   the registrant already operates should delegate the ASN label to it,
   which achieves the same end without leaving the "asn.arpa" hierarchy
   and without extending the CNAME chain.

8.6.  Registrant Considerations

   Nothing in this document requires the registrant of an Autonomous
   System Number to operate a zone, to request a delegation, or to
   publish anything.  It is expected that many registrants, possibly
   most, will do nothing, and that participation will be driven by the
   applications a registrant cares about rather than by the existence of
   the namespace.

   A registrant that does wish to publish need only choose between
   participating in its RIR's hosting arrangement and requesting a
   delegation and operating a zone itself.






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 21]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Signing is recommended but not required.  This document places no
   requirement on a registrant to sign a zone delegated to it, and an
   RIR MAY publish an insecure delegation to a registrant that asks for
   one.

   A registrant's participation is per-ASN.  A registrant of several
   Autonomous System Numbers may publish for some and not others.

   The work required of registrants is the same as they already perform
   for reverse delegation under "in-addr.arpa" and "ip6.arpa".

8.7.  What the Zone Does and Does Not Say

   The structure yields three distinguishable states for a name under
   "asn.arpa":

   *  The ASN is not allocated to any Regional Internet Registry, or is
      reserved for a special purpose.  There is no CNAME in "asn.arpa",
      and the zone returns authenticated denial of existence.  The ASN
      is not one that any autonomous system should be advertising to the
      global routing system.

   *  The ASN is allocated to an RIR, but nothing is published for it.
      The CNAME exists and validates; the name it points to does not
      exist.

   *  The ASN is allocated and something is published for it.  The CNAME
      exists and validates, and data is returned from the RIR side.

   These are states of the zones.  A resolver's view of them changes
   more slowly: a transition from the first state to the second, or from
   the second to the third, is not visible to a validating resolver
   until whatever negative information it holds for the name expires
   (Section 8.3).

   The first two cases both yield RCODE 3 in the final response
   [RFC1034] [RFC2308], because a CNAME chain ending at a name that does
   not exist is reported as a name error for the query as a whole.  The
   response code therefore does not distinguish them.  The distinction
   is carried by the answer section: a validated CNAME from
   "<asn>.asn.arpa" is present in the second case and absent in the
   first.

   The second case is not further divisible from outside.  Because IANA
   publishes the CNAME on allocation and an RIR publishes at the target
   only when it has something to publish (Section 4.3), an ASN that has
   not been assigned to a registrant and an ASN that has been assigned
   to a registrant who publishes nothing produce the same result.  This



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 22]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   namespace therefore carries no indication of whether an Autonomous
   System Number has been assigned.  The RIRs' published records
   [RIR-STATS], and not the DNS, are authoritative for assignment
   status.

8.8.  Availability

   The "asn.arpa" zone is served by the nameservers named in
   Section 5.1, which are, at the time of writing, the infrastructure
   that serves "arpa" [RFC9120].  The RIRs and registrants of Autonomous
   System Numbers operating zones beneath it should provision them with
   the diversity and redundancy appropriate to the level of criticality
   of the infrastructure that the ASN identifies, and should choose TTLs
   long enough that a transient server failure does not immediately
   deprive consumers of data.

   A resolver implementing serve-stale [RFC8767] may continue answering
   with expired data until the authoritative servers can be reached
   again.  Since the data for this namespace changes rarely, serve-stale
   provides a useful improvement in availability.  A resolver
   implementing [RFC9520] caches the resolution failure itself, so an
   outage can suppress retries for a further interval after it has
   ended.  Neither behavior yields authenticated denial of existence,
   and a consumer MUST NOT treat either as such (Section 10).

9.  Privacy Considerations

   Queries under "asn.arpa" reveal which autonomous system a querier is
   examining and, in aggregate, may reveal a relying party's analysis.
   A consumer for which that exposure matters can limit it by employing
   QNAME minimization [RFC9156], or, where an operator offers bulk
   retrieval of a zone, by retrieving the zone rather than querying
   names one at a time.  Operators of zones under "asn.arpa" should
   treat query logs as operationally sensitive.

10.  Security Considerations

   The security of this namespace rests on two properties: that the name
   of an autonomous system resolves, through IANA, into the zone of the
   RIR that administers the ASN, and that the entire chain is signed.
   Section 6 makes both mandatory.










Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 23]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   The CNAME indirection places IANA in the resolution path for every
   name in the namespace.  That matches the path of resource delegation,
   and parallels the paths used for IPv4 and IPv6 number resources: IANA
   is the party that knows which RIR administers a given ASN.  It does
   mean that a compromise of the "asn.arpa" zone could redirect any
   autonomous system's name to an attacker-controlled RIR zone, which is
   the same exposure that "arpa" and the root already carry, and is
   addressed by the same means.

   Threats to the namespace include attempts to downgrade responses to
   insecure, addressed by the usual DNSSEC security measures; denial of
   service against the zones, addressed by provisioning and TTL choices;
   and stale-but-valid data, which applications must address.

   The requirement that reserved and unallocated Autonomous System
   Numbers return authenticated denial of existence prevents an attacker
   from constructing the appearance of a valid publication for a number
   that is not a legitimate Autonomous System Number at all.  That
   protection is the reason wildcard records are prohibited
   (Section 4.3).  An answer synthesized from a wildcard would still
   validate, so a wildcard in "asn.arpa" would replace the authenticated
   denial of existence for every unallocated and reserved Autonomous
   System Number with an authenticated positive answer, and one in the
   zone of a Regional Internet Registry would do the same for every ASN
   that RIR administers but has not assigned.

   Resolution under "asn.arpa" traverses a CNAME, and during a deferred
   transfer (Section 4.6) two.  Resolvers limit the number of CNAME
   restarts they will follow, and a resolution that exceeds the limit
   yields SERVFAIL, or, in older implementations, a partial answer with
   a NOERROR response code.  Neither outcome is authenticated denial of
   existence; both are a failure to determine whether data exists.  For
   applications such as Digital Emblems this distinction is critical: an
   inability to resolve a name is not evidence that the autonomous
   system bears no emblem.

   The "asn-servers.arpa" zone (Section 5.1) introduces no trust
   dependency of its own.  It is signed, its DS RRset is present in the
   "arpa" zone, and it is validated in the same chain as everything else
   in this namespace.  Naming the nameservers of "asn.arpa" within
   "arpa" also keeps the delegation free of any dependency on a domain
   administered outside the arrangements of [RFC3172].

11.  IANA Considerations

   This section is to be read as the request required by Section 3 of
   [RFC3172], and the IAB is asked to approve the delegations described
   here.



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 24]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Name of the subdomain:  "asn.arpa"

   Rules for administration:  IANA administers the "asn.arpa" zone under
      IAB guidance, serving it from the infrastructure that serves
      "arpa" [RFC9120], and signs it with DNSSEC as required by
      Section 6.  IANA delegates one subdomain to each Regional Internet
      Registry, each accompanied by a DS RRset, and publishes within the
      zone a CNAME record for each allocated Autonomous System Number
      pointing to the corresponding name in the subdomain of the RIR
      that administers it.  The CNAME set is regenerated before each
      scheduled edit by the procedure of Section 8.2, which specifies
      the inputs, their order of application, and the cross-check IANA
      makes against the DNS.  Delegations are added, removed, or changed
      as Regional Internet Registries are recognized, divided, or
      derecognized through the ICANN Address Supporting Organization
      process [ICP-2].  Each Regional Internet Registry administers the
      zone delegated to it in accordance with the policies developed by
      its own community, signs it, and maintains the corresponding DS
      RRset.

   Criteria for entries within the subdomain:  The zone contains a
      delegation for each recognized Regional Internet Registry; a CNAME
      record for each Autonomous System Number currently allocated to a
      Regional Internet Registry, named in asplain notation as specified
      in Section 4.3; and the records required to operate and sign the
      zone.  It contains no other delegations, no names for Autonomous
      System Numbers recorded as special-purpose in the "Special-Purpose
      Autonomous System (AS) Numbers" registry [IANA-ASN-SPECIAL] or not
      allocated to a Regional Internet Registry, and no application
      data.

   The same request is made in respect of the zone that names the
   nameservers of "asn.arpa":

   Name of the subdomain:  "asn-servers.arpa"

   Rules for administration:  IANA administers the "asn-servers.arpa"
      zone under IAB guidance, delegates it to the same set of
      nameservers as "asn.arpa", installs the corresponding IPv4 and
      IPv6 glue records in the "arpa" zone, and signs it with DNSSEC as
      required by Section 6.  This is the arrangement [RFC5855] makes
      for "in-addr-servers.arpa" and "ip6-servers.arpa".

   Criteria for entries within the subdomain:  The zone contains address
      records for the nameservers that serve "asn.arpa", named as
      specified in Section 5.1, and the records required to operate and
      sign the zone.  It contains no delegations and no application
      data.



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 25]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   The delegations of "in-addr-servers.arpa" and "ip6-servers.arpa" that
   IANA made under [RFC5855] are restated by Section 5.2 of this
   document and are unchanged by it.  IANA is not asked to take any
   action in respect of those two zones.

   IANA is further requested to record the delegations of "asn.arpa" and
   "asn-servers.arpa" in its listing of the second-level domains of
   "arpa".  No new IANA registry is created by this document.

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

   [RFC1034]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - concepts and facilities",
              STD 13, RFC 1034, DOI 10.17487/RFC1034, November 1987,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1034>.

   [RFC1035]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and
              specification", STD 13, RFC 1035, DOI 10.17487/RFC1035,
              November 1987, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1035>.

   [RFC1930]  Hawkinson, J. and T. Bates, "Guidelines for creation,
              selection, and registration of an Autonomous System (AS)",
              BCP 6, RFC 1930, DOI 10.17487/RFC1930, March 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1930>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC2181]  Elz, R. and R. Bush, "Clarifications to the DNS
              Specification", RFC 2181, DOI 10.17487/RFC2181, July 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2181>.

   [RFC2308]  Andrews, M., "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS
              NCACHE)", RFC 2308, DOI 10.17487/RFC2308, March 1998,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2308>.

   [RFC3172]  Huston, G., Ed., "Management Guidelines & Operational
              Requirements for the Address and Routing Parameter Area
              Domain ("arpa")", BCP 52, RFC 3172, DOI 10.17487/RFC3172,
              September 2001, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3172>.

   [RFC4034]  Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S.
              Rose, "Resource Records for the DNS Security Extensions",
              RFC 4034, DOI 10.17487/RFC4034, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4034>.



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 26]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   [RFC4592]  Lewis, E., "The Role of Wildcards in the Domain Name
              System", RFC 4592, DOI 10.17487/RFC4592, July 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4592>.

   [RFC5155]  Laurie, B., Sisson, G., Arends, R., and D. Blacka, "DNS
              Security (DNSSEC) Hashed Authenticated Denial of
              Existence", RFC 5155, DOI 10.17487/RFC5155, March 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5155>.

   [RFC5396]  Huston, G. and G. Michaelson, "Textual Representation of
              Autonomous System (AS) Numbers", RFC 5396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5396, December 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5396>.

   [RFC5398]  Huston, G., "Autonomous System (AS) Number Reservation for
              Documentation Use", RFC 5398, DOI 10.17487/RFC5398,
              December 2008, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5398>.

   [RFC5855]  Abley, J. and T. Manderson, "Nameservers for IPv4 and IPv6
              Reverse Zones", BCP 155, RFC 5855, DOI 10.17487/RFC5855,
              May 2010, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5855>.

   [RFC5936]  Lewis, E. and A. Hoenes, Ed., "DNS Zone Transfer Protocol
              (AXFR)", RFC 5936, DOI 10.17487/RFC5936, June 2010,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5936>.

   [RFC6793]  Vohra, Q. and E. Chen, "BGP Support for Four-Octet
              Autonomous System (AS) Number Space", RFC 6793,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6793, December 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6793>.

   [RFC6996]  Mitchell, J., "Autonomous System (AS) Reservation for
              Private Use", BCP 6, RFC 6996, DOI 10.17487/RFC6996, July
              2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6996>.

   [RFC7300]  Haas, J. and J. Mitchell, "Reservation of Last Autonomous
              System (AS) Numbers", BCP 6, RFC 7300,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7300, July 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7300>.

   [RFC7344]  Kumari, W., Gudmundsson, O., and G. Barwood, "Automating
              DNSSEC Delegation Trust Maintenance", RFC 7344,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7344, September 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7344>.







Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 27]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   [RFC7607]  Kumari, W., Bush, R., Schiller, H., and K. Patel,
              "Codification of AS 0 Processing", RFC 7607,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7607, August 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7607>.

   [RFC8078]  Gudmundsson, O. and P. Wouters, "Managing DS Records from
              the Parent via CDS/CDNSKEY", RFC 8078,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8078, March 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8078>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8945]  Dupont, F., Morris, S., Vixie, P., Eastlake 3rd, D.,
              Gudmundsson, O., and B. Wellington, "Secret Key
              Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)", STD 93,
              RFC 8945, DOI 10.17487/RFC8945, November 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8945>.

   [RFC9103]  Toorop, W., Dickinson, S., Sahib, S., Aras, P., and A.
              Mankin, "DNS Zone Transfer over TLS", RFC 9103,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9103, August 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9103>.

   [RFC9364]  Hoffman, P., "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)", BCP 237,
              RFC 9364, DOI 10.17487/RFC9364, February 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9364>.

   [RFC9904]  Hardaker, W. and W. Kumari, "DNSSEC Cryptographic
              Algorithm Recommendation Update Process", RFC 9904,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9904, November 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9904>.

12.2.  Informative References

   [ASN-ALLOC-POLICY]
              Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers,
              "Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Policy for
              Allocation of ASN Blocks to Regional Internet Registries",
              September 2010, <https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/
              global-policy-asn-blocks-2010-09-21-en>.

   [COM-ZONE] VeriSign Global Registry Services, "The .com Zone File,
              distributed through the ICANN Centralized Zone Data
              Service", n.d., <https://czds.icann.org/>.





Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 28]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   [DIEM-CHARTER]
              Internet Engineering Task Force, "Digital Emblems (diem)
              Working Group Charter", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/diem/about/>.

   [I-D.ietf-diem-requirements]
              Fainchtein, R. A., Linker, F., Rosenberg, A., Deccio, C.,
              and A. Mankin, "Digital Emblems - Use Cases and
              Requirements", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              ietf-diem-requirements-03, 6 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-diem-
              requirements-03>.

   [I-D.ietf-dnssec-as-map]
              Eastlake, D. E., "Mapping Autonomous Systems Number into
              the Domain Name System", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-dnssec-as-map-05, 2 August 1997,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-dnssec-
              as-map-05>.

   [IANA-ASN] Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, "Autonomous System
              (AS) Numbers", n.d.,
              <https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/>.

   [IANA-ASN-SPECIAL]
              Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, "Special-Purpose
              Autonomous System (AS) Numbers", n.d.,
              <https://www.iana.org/assignments/iana-as-numbers-special-
              registry/>.

   [IANA-ITAD]
              Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, "IP Telephony
              Administrative Domain (ITAD) Numbers, in the Telephony
              Routing over IP (TRIP) Parameters registry", n.d.,
              <https://www.iana.org/assignments/trip-parameters/>.

   [ICP-2]    Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, "ICP-
              2: Criteria for Establishment of New Regional Internet
              Registries", 4 June 2001,
              <https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/new-rirs-criteria-
              2012-02-25-en>.

   [ICP-2-REVIEW]
              ICANN Address Supporting Organization Address Council,
              "ICP-2 Review", n.d.,
              <https://aso.icann.org/icp-2-review/>.





Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 29]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   [INOC-DBA] NIC.br, "INOC-DBA: the Inter-Network Operations Center
              Dial-By-ASN hotline", n.d., <https://inoc.nic.br/>.

   [NRO-STATS-FORMAT]
              The Number Resource Organization, "NRO Extended Allocation
              and Assignment Report Format", n.d., <https://www.nro.net/
              wp-content/uploads/nro-extended-stats-readme5.txt>.

   [RFC2317]  Eidnes, H., de Groot, G., and P. Vixie, "Classless IN-
              ADDR.ARPA delegation", BCP 20, RFC 2317,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2317, March 1998,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2317>.

   [RFC2535]  Eastlake 3rd, D., "Domain Name System Security
              Extensions", RFC 2535, DOI 10.17487/RFC2535, March 1999,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2535>.

   [RFC2622]  Alaettinoglu, C., Villamizar, C., Gerich, E., Kessens, D.,
              Meyer, D., Bates, T., Karrenberg, D., and M. Terpstra,
              "Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)", RFC 2622,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2622, June 1999,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2622>.

   [RFC2860]  Carpenter, B., Baker, F., and M. Roberts, "Memorandum of
              Understanding Concerning the Technical Work of the
              Internet Assigned Numbers Authority", RFC 2860,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2860, June 2000,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2860>.

   [RFC3152]  Bush, R., "Delegation of IP6.ARPA", BCP 49, RFC 3152,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3152, August 2001,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3152>.

   [RFC3219]  Rosenberg, J., Salama, H., and M. Squire, "Telephony
              Routing over IP (TRIP)", RFC 3219, DOI 10.17487/RFC3219,
              January 2002, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3219>.

   [RFC4012]  Blunk, L., Damas, J., Parent, F., and A. Robachevsky,
              "Routing Policy Specification Language next generation
              (RPSLng)", RFC 4012, DOI 10.17487/RFC4012, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4012>.

   [RFC6480]  Lepinski, M. and S. Kent, "An Infrastructure to Support
              Secure Internet Routing", RFC 6480, DOI 10.17487/RFC6480,
              February 2012, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6480>.






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 30]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   [RFC7020]  Housley, R., Curran, J., Huston, G., and D. Conrad, "The
              Internet Numbers Registry System", RFC 7020,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7020, August 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7020>.

   [RFC7050]  Savolainen, T., Korhonen, J., and D. Wing, "Discovery of
              the IPv6 Prefix Used for IPv6 Address Synthesis",
              RFC 7050, DOI 10.17487/RFC7050, November 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7050>.

   [RFC7249]  Housley, R., "Internet Numbers Registries", RFC 7249,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7249, May 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7249>.

   [RFC7454]  Durand, J., Pepelnjak, I., and G. Doering, "BGP Operations
              and Security", BCP 194, RFC 7454, DOI 10.17487/RFC7454,
              February 2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7454>.

   [RFC7535]  Abley, J., Dickson, B., Kumari, W., and G. Michaelson,
              "AS112 Redirection Using DNAME", RFC 7535,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7535, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7535>.

   [RFC8198]  Fujiwara, K., Kato, A., and W. Kumari, "Aggressive Use of
              DNSSEC-Validated Cache", RFC 8198, DOI 10.17487/RFC8198,
              July 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8198>.

   [RFC8375]  Pfister, P. and T. Lemon, "Special-Use Domain
              'home.arpa.'", RFC 8375, DOI 10.17487/RFC8375, May 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8375>.

   [RFC8767]  Lawrence, D., Kumari, W., and P. Sood, "Serving Stale Data
              to Improve DNS Resiliency", RFC 8767,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8767, March 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8767>.

   [RFC9120]  Davies, K. and J. Arkko, "Nameservers for the Address and
              Routing Parameter Area ("arpa") Domain", RFC 9120,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9120, October 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9120>.

   [RFC9156]  Bortzmeyer, S., Dolmans, R., and P. Hoffman, "DNS Query
              Name Minimisation to Improve Privacy", RFC 9156,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9156, November 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9156>.






Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 31]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   [RFC9224]  Blanchet, M., "Finding the Authoritative Registration Data
              Access Protocol (RDAP) Service", STD 95, RFC 9224,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9224, March 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9224>.

   [RFC9499]  Hoffman, P. and K. Fujiwara, "DNS Terminology", BCP 219,
              RFC 9499, DOI 10.17487/RFC9499, March 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9499>.

   [RFC9520]  Wessels, D., Carroll, W., and M. Thomas, "Negative Caching
              of DNS Resolution Failures", RFC 9520,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9520, December 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9520>.

   [RFC9812]  Carpenter, B., Krishnan, S., and D. Farmer, "Clarification
              of IPv6 Address Allocation Policy", BCP 242, RFC 9812,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9812, October 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9812>.

   [RIR-STATS]
              The Number Resource Organization, "NRO Extended Allocation
              and Assignment Report", n.d.,
              <https://ftp.ripe.net/pub/stats/ripencc/nro-stats/latest/
              nro-delegated-stats>.

   [RIR-TRANSFERS]
              The Regional Internet Registries, "Inter-Registry Transfer
              Statistics (each Regional Internet Registry publishes an
              equivalent file)", n.d.,
              <https://ftp.ripe.net/pub/stats/ripencc/transfers/
              transfers_latest.json>.

   [STATDNS]  Cambus, F., "TLD Zone File Statistics, August 2026:
              monthly resource-record counts derived from the generic
              top-level domain zone files", August 2026,
              <https://www.statdns.com/data/2026-08-tld-zone-file-
              statistics.csv>.

Appendix A.  Design Alternatives Considered

   This appendix records alternatives considered, for the working
   group's information; it is expected to be removed before publication.









Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 32]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


A.1.  Delegation of Numeric Ranges to RIRs

   The obvious alternative is the structure used by "in-addr.arpa" and
   "ip6.arpa", in which the parent zone delegates ranges of the
   numbering space directly to the RIR that holds them.  Applied to
   Autonomous System Numbers this requires an encoding of the 32-bit ASN
   in a way that makes aggregation possible.  This alternative has been
   proposed before: [I-D.ietf-dnssec-as-map] mapped every Autonomous
   System Number into "in-as.arpa" as its decimal digits in reverse
   order, zero-padded to five and followed by a label giving the digit
   count, so that AS 690 became "0.9.6.0.0.5.in-as.arpa".  The digits
   were decimal rather than binary specifically so that the boundaries
   of the blocks allocated to the RIRs would fall on label boundaries.
   That draft addressed substantially the present purpose, the
   authenticated publication of keys for autonomous systems.  It expired
   in 1998 and was never published, at a time when Autonomous System
   Numbers in BGP were 16 bits wide, were allocated in large aligned
   blocks, and were not subject to a transfer market.

A.1.1.  The Name is No Longer Human-Readable

   Aggregation requires that the 32-bit ASN be decomposed into a
   hierarchy of labels, and once it is, the name is no longer human-
   readable.  AS 64496 becomes "0.f.b.f.0.0.0.0.asn.arpa" under a
   reversed hexadecimal-nibble encoding, or "240.251.0.0.asn.arpa" under
   a reversed decimal-octet encoding.  Neither can be checked by a
   person without a calculator, and neither is recognizably related to
   AS 64496.

   These names will have as much direct utility to people as to
   software.  They will appear in Digital Emblems and in the software
   that validates them, in peering policy documents, in correspondence,
   and in discussion between parties disputing whether a given
   autonomous system is what it claims to be.  A name that must be
   calculated before it can be verified will sometimes be calculated
   wrongly, and a transcription error or miscalculation in this
   namespace would indistinguishably produce a response related to a
   different autonomous system.

   The structure specified in Section 4.3 is the only one considered
   here which avoids these problems.  The name of AS 64496 is
   "64496.asn.arpa": concise and easily related to the ASN it denotes.









Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 33]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


A.1.2.  The Present Cost

   A survey of the IANA registry [IANA-ASN] as of mid-2026 found 159
   records allocating Autonomous System Numbers to RIRs, forming 74
   contiguous single-RIR runs and covering some 140,000 ASNs.  Covering
   those runs requires 891 delegations under a reversed hexadecimal-
   nibble encoding, or 4,626 under a reversed decimal-octet encoding.
   The allocation quantum is nominally 1024 [ASN-ALLOC-POLICY], but the
   boundaries are not aligned to it: allocations of 925 and 924 ASNs in
   the 32-bit space have displaced every subsequent run, and the legacy
   16-bit space is allocated at single-ASN granularity in places, with
   individual ASNs held by one RIR inside runs belonging to another.

A.1.3.  Each Transfer Has a Disproportionate Effect

   Those figures describe IANA's block allocations, which no longer
   relate to the current administering RIR for each ASN.  Individual
   Autonomous System Numbers move between RIRs by transfer, and those
   movements are recorded in the RIRs' transfer logs [RIR-TRANSFERS]
   rather than in the IANA registry.  As of mid-2026 the logs record the
   inter-RIR transfer of 187 individual ASNs among ARIN, RIPE, and
   APNIC, at a rate that has risen from one in 2018 to 32 in the first
   eight months of 2026.  The logs are not the whole of the divergence,
   because they begin only in 2018.  The present administering RIR must
   therefore be read from the RIRs' extended delegation reports
   [RIR-STATS], which differ from IANA's block attribution for 2,098
   ASNs.  The figures below are accordingly computed from the extended
   reports, not by applying the transfer logs to the IANA registry,
   which would understate the fragmentation by a factor of three.

   Computing the cover of the present-day ASN-to-RIR mapping raises the
   number of contiguous single-RIR runs from 74 to 2,613, the exact
   cover from 891 to 16,670 delegations under nibble encoding, and from
   4,626 to 53,585 under octet encoding.  Movement of one and a half
   percent of the allocated space thus multiplies the delegation count
   more than eighteenfold, because each ASN removed from the interior of
   an aggregate shatters it into aligned fragments.  Moving one further
   ASN, drawn at random from the present distribution, costs
   approximately 25 additional delegations.

A.1.4.  The Cost Increases Over Time

   Transfers are driven by corporate restructuring and a market in
   number resources.  Each transfer is individually rational,
   independent of every other, and unconstrained by numeric adjacency.
   No party acquiring a company or an ASN has any reason to prefer one
   whose Autonomous System Number would preserve aggregation, and the
   market does not facilitate aggregation-preserving transactions.



Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 34]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Unlike IP addresses, the disaggregation of ASNs has no inverse
   mechanism.  There is no party in a position to re-aggregate ASNs:
   IANA cannot renumber an autonomous system and an RIR cannot compel a
   registrant to exchange its ASN for a numerically convenient one.
   Every transfer therefore increases fragmentation permanently, and no
   mechanism exists by which fragmentation can decrease.

   It follows that the present state of aggregation is the tidiest that
   will ever be observed.  Every future state is more fragmented than
   its predecessors, and the distribution of ASNs across RIRs is driven
   by entropy toward a stochastic state: an arbitrary mapping from a
   32-bit ASN onto one of five or more RIRs, with no residual structure
   from which to derive compression.  A range-delegation design would
   therefore function best on the day it was specified and would degrade
   from that day onward, with the "asn.arpa" zone absorbing on the order
   of 25 further delegations for every autonomous system that changes
   region, indefinitely.

   Moreover, a delegation model would require that IANA immediately
   reflect each inter-RIR transfer, increasing its workload from roughly
   five simple actions per year to more than fifty at the present
   transfer rate, and to an unbounded larger number in years to come.

   The structure specified in Section 4.3 is unaffected by these
   problems.  Its cost is one record per allocated ASN, regardless of
   the distribution of those ASNs across RIRs, a transfer changes one
   record rather than fragmenting a delegation, and the IANA work is
   done at the IANA's convenience rather than in response to market
   actions.

A.1.5.  Projection

   The two structures were projected forward from the present state.
   New IANA allocation was modeled at 5,120 ASNs per year, the mean of
   2015 through 2026 [IANA-ASN], apportioned among the RIRs in their
   recent shares and appended to each RIR's existing run.  The
   allocations from 2018 to 2026 have a very nearly linear slope.

   New allocation by IANA imposes negligible fragmentation cost.  If one
   ignores the effect of transfers, when IANA appends a block to the end
   of an RIR's existing run the number of single-RIR runs remains at
   roughly 2,620 and the nibble cover at roughly 16,900 indefinitely,
   even as the allocated space grows from 140,000 ASNs to 263,000.
   Fragmentation results from transfers rather than new allocations.







Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 35]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Under a range-delegation design, about nine resource records are
   necessary to represent each delegation.  Under a CNAME structure,
   four.  Projecting the increase in allocations forward yields the
   following growth under each model:

         allocated  cumulative              delegation     CNAME
   year       ASNs  ASN moves  delegations  model RRs  model RRs  ratio
   2026    140,286      2,098       16,670    150,030    561,144    3.7
   2030    160,770      2,342       22,212    199,908    643,080    3.2
   2040    211,980      3,367       40,565    365,085    847,920    2.3
   2050    263,190      4,984       64,532    580,788  1,052,760    1.8

   The number of resource records in the zone continues to favor the
   delegation model for several decades hence, but the number of
   resource records is inexpensive relative to the complexity of the
   work involved, particularly for IANA.  It is that difference in
   workload, rather than zone size, that recommends the CNAME method.  A
   CNAME is unilaterally asserted and mechanically generated from RIR
   data.  A delegation is a bilateral relationship between parties,
   requiring nameserver designation, glue where applicable, a DS RRset,
   and coordination of that DS RRset with the child across every key
   rollover forever.  Five such arrangements are tractable.  The 16,670
   which would be required today and more than 22,000 four years from
   now represent an infeasible additional workload for IANA and the
   RIRs.

   Deferred repointing (Section 4.6) further strengthens the argument in
   favor of CNAMEs.  Under the structure specified here, IANA's annual
   operations on "asn.arpa" occur during its allocation operations, some
   five a year, regardless of how many ASNs change region, and are
   automated, requiring no interaction with RIR personnel.  A range-
   delegation design cannot do the same.  An RIR could in principle
   defer a transfer by delegating the fragment onward with NS records,
   but that requires the source RIR to hold a DS RRset for the recipient
   RIR's key inside its own zone, and it relocates the fragmentation
   into the RIRs' zones rather than eliminating it.  When IANA
   eventually reconciles, the edit still touches on the order of twenty-
   five delegation records for each transferred ASN, against one
   automated CNAME repoint.

   Range delegation also increases complexity in other ways: for
   instance, an ASN moving out of the interior of another RIR's range
   requires either that the RIR holding the covering range serve a name
   on the recipient RIR's behalf, or that IANA publish a more-specific
   delegation that contradicts the covering one.

Authors' Addresses




Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 36]

Internet-Draft                  asn.arpa                  September 2026


   Bill Woodcock
   Packet Clearing House
   Email: woody@pch.net


   Mark Kosters
   ARIN
   Email: markk@arin.net


   Carlos Martinez-Cagnazzo
   LACNIC
   Email: carlos@lacnic.net


   Mukom Akong Tamon
   AFRINIC
   Email: tamon@afrinic.net


   Geoff Huston
   APNIC
   Email: gih@apnic.net




























Woodcock, et al.          Expires 8 March 2027                 [Page 37]
